NEXT-25363 - Documentations for app flow custom trigger (#967)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/apps/flow-builder/add-custom-flow-triggers-from-app-system.md

The app calls the API to trigger the custom event and can provide the data. The API will create a CustomAppEvent object and dispatch it with the data provided.
The data given will be saved through `StorableFlow`. This can be utilized for actions or email templates.

Here is an example to define data from the API:

```json
    {
        "customerId": "d20e4d60e35e4afdb795c767eee08fec",
        "salesChannelId": "55cb094fd1794d489c63975a6b4b5b90",
        "shopName": "Shopware's Shop",
        "url": "https://shopware.com" 
    }
```

Flow actions can retrieve the data from FlowStorer.

```php
    $salesChanelId = $flow->getData(MailAware::SALES_CHANNEL_ID));
    $customer = $flow->getData(CustomerAware::CUSTOMER_ID));
```

Or we can use the data when defining the email template.

```html
    <h3>Welcome to {{ shopName }}</h3>
    <h1>Visit us at: {{ url }} </h1>
```

Please see the [StorableFlow Concept](../../../../resources/references/adr/admin/flow-builder/2022-07-21-adding-the-StorableFlow-to-implement-DelayAction-in-Flow-Builder.md) for more information.

## Snippet for translation

> You can define snippets to translate your custom trigger to show in the trigger tree and flow list. For more information, refer to [Adding snippets](../../plugins/administration/adding-snippets.md) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define snippets to translate your custom trigger to show the trigger tree and flow list. Refer to the [Adding snippets](../../plugins/administration/adding-snippets.md) guide for more information.
```

# Add custom flow trigger

{% hint style="info" %}
The Shopware Apps custom flow triggers are exclusively accessible on 6.5.2.0 and later versions. Previous versions are not compatible.
{% endhint %}

In addition to the default triggers, developers have the option to incorporate custom, pre-defined, and adjustable triggers into the flow builder.

![Custom flow trigger in Administration](../../../../.gitbook/assets/flow-builder-custom-trigger-preview.png)

After reading, you will be able to

> * Create the basic setup of an app
> * Create custom triggers for the flow builder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create the basic setup of an app.
* Create custom triggers for the flow builder.
```

* Use an API to interact with custom triggers.

## Prerequisites

> Please make sure you already have a working Shopware 6 store running (either cloud or self-hosted). Prior knowledge about the Flow Builder feature of Shopware 6 is useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please ensure you have a working Shopware 6 store (either cloud or self-hosted). Prior knowledge about the Flow Builder feature of Shopware 6 is useful.
```

Please see the [Flow Builder Concept](../../../../concepts/framework/flow-concept.md) for more information.

## Create the app wrapper

> To get started with your app, create an `apps` folder inside the `custom` folder of your Shopware dev installation. In there, create another directory for your application and provide a `manifest.xml` file, following the structure below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get started with your app, create an `apps` folder inside the `custom` folder of your Shopware dev installation. Next, create another directory inside for your application and provide a `manifest.xml` file following the structure below:
```

{% endhint %}

## Define the flow trigger

To create a flow trigger, you need to define a `<flow-event>` block within a file called `flow.xml`. Each `<flow-event>` represents one trigger, and you can define an arbitrary number of events.

{% code title="Resources/flow.xml" %}

```xml
<flow-extensions xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/platform/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Flow/Schema/flow-1.0.xsd">
    <flow-events>
        <flow-event>
            ... # The first trigger
        </flow-event>
        <flow-event>
            ... # The second trigger
        </flow-event>
    </flow-events>
    ...
</flow-extensions>
```

{% endcode %}

A single flow trigger would look like this:

```xml
<flow-event>
    <name>swag.before.open_the_doors</name>
    <aware>orderAware</aware>
</flow-event>
```

| Key          | Required | Description                                                 |
|:-------------|:---------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| name         | yes      | The technical name of your trigger, unique for all actions. |

> | aware        | no       | Filter actions for your trigger, read more bellow.          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| aware        | no       | Filter actions for your trigger, read more below.          |
```

**aware**

> The aware will decide which actions are available for your trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `aware` will decide which actions are available for your trigger.
```

***Example***

If you define the orderAware in your trigger config `<aware>orderAware</aware>` the actions related to Order will be available when the trigger selected.

* action.add.order.tag,
* action.remove.order.tag,
* action.generate.document,
* action.grant.download.access,
* action.set.order.state,
* action.add.order.affiliate.and.campaign.code,
* action.set.order.custom.field,
* action.stop.flow

If you define the customerAware in your trigger config `<aware>orderAware</aware> the actions related to Customer will be available when the trigger selected.

* action.add.customer.tag
* action.remove.customer.tag
* action.change.customer.group
* action.change.customer.status
* action.set.customer.custom.field
* action.add.customer.affiliate.and.campaign.code
* action.stop.flow

> For each value when you define, it'll represent one of the `aware` interfaces from the `core`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each value defined, it represents one of the `aware` interfaces from the `core`.
```

> To fulfill the aware, refer to a subset of action triggers aware:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fulfill the `aware`, refer to a subset of action triggers aware:
```

| Value              | Interface                                        |
|:-------------------|:-------------------------------------------------|
| customerAware      | Shopware\Core\Framework\Event\CustomerAware      |
| customerGroupAware | Shopware\Core\Framework\Event\CustomerGroupAware |
| delayAware         | Shopware\Core\Framework\Event\DelayAware         |
| mailAware          | Shopware\Core\Framework\Event\MailAware          |
| orderAware         | Shopware\Core\Framework\Event\OrderAware         |
| salesChannelAware  | Shopware\Core\Framework\Event\SalesChannelAware  |
| userAware          | Shopware\Core\Framework\Event\UserAware          |

## Trigger API

> We provided an API with the endpoint is `POST: /api/_action/trigger-event/{eventName}` to dispatch the custom trigger when you call the API.
> The app calls the API to trigger the custom event and can provide the data. The API will create a CustomAppEvent object and dispatch it with the data provided.
> The data given will be saved through `StorableFlow`. This can be utilized for actions or email templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provided an API with the endpoint `POST: /api/_action/trigger-event/{eventName}` to dispatch the custom trigger when you call the API.
The app calls the API to trigger the custom event and can provide the data. The API will create a CustomAppEvent object and dispatch it with the data provided.
The data given will be saved through `StorableFlow`. This can be utilized for actions or email templates.
```

> *Example to define data from the API:*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example to define data from the API:
```

```json
    {
        "customerId": "d20e4d60e35e4afdb795c767eee08fec",
        "salesChannelId": "55cb094fd1794d489c63975a6b4b5b90",
        "shopName": "Shopware's Shop",
        "url": "https://shopware.com" 
    }
```

> *After that, at actions we can get data thought FlowStorer.*

Reviewer: What does this mean? Can you please rephrase this sentence?

Author: When developers specify their data in an API call, the actions from the flow builder can utilize them.
I have rephrased this sentence.

```php
    $salesChanelId = $flow->getData(MailAware::SALES_CHANNEL_ID));
    $customer = $flow->getData(CustomerAware::CUSTOMER_ID));
```

> *Or we can use the data when defining the email template.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or we can use the data when defining the email template.
```

| event-tree           | All the keys used to trigger tree will be defined inside          |
| flow-list            | All the keys used to flow list will be defined inside             |

***Example***

{% code title="Resources/flow.xml" %}

```xml
<flow-extensions xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/platform/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Flow/Schema/flow-1.0.xsd">
    <flow-events>
        <flow-event>
            <name>swag.before.open_the_doors</name>
            ...
        </flow-event>
    </flow-events>
</flow-extensions>
```

{% endcode %}

{% code title="custom/apps/FlowBuilderTriggerApp/Resources/app/administration/snippet/en-GB.json" %}

```json
{
  "sw-flow-custom-event": {
    "event-tree": {
      "swag": "Swag",
      "before": "Before",
      "openTheDoors": "Open the doors"
    },
    "flow-list": {
      "swag_before_open_the_doors": "Before open the doors"
    }
  }
}
```

{% endcode %}

## Install the App

The app can now be installed by running the following command:

```bash
bin/console app:install --activate FlowBuilderTriggerApp
```

## Further steps

> * [Schema definition for flow events (GitHub)](https://github.com/shopware/platform/blob/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Flow/Schema/flow-1.0.xsd)

Reviewer: What si to be done in this step. Please mention.

Author: I have removed the "Further steps" section and relocated the link to "Define the flow trigger."
